okay without further Ado I gotta move on
because I could just you know have your
conversations all day
um our next speaker is an artist who
I've worked with and uh a lot over the
past year uh she was in the Pieces of Me
show at transfer Gallery among among
other projects and initiatives
um I'm really thrilled to be announcing
Oreo Harvey
um who is going to be talking to us next
Oria is an artist producing simulations
and sculptures that bridge physical and
digital space after Plumbing the depths
of net art and video games uh everyone
should go check out tale of tales
amazing
um she has now turned her attention to
digital sculpture 3D printing and mixed
reality the work is presented as
sculptures that blend digital and
handmade production she's half of the
artist Duo entropy 8 Zooper tale of
tales Song of Songs known for their
pioneering Works in Internet art video
games and XR Oreo lives in Rome and
she's a professor of games at Coons talk
school at Castle she was part of the
curated Christie's Auction proof of
sovereignty in 2021 this year and her
work can be found in the permanent
collections of the Walker Arts Center
San Francisco Museum of Modern Art the
lot 55 the lot 555 nft exhibition and
rhizome's net art Anthology her video
games and VR Works have had
International success including
exhibitions at the Tingley Museum in
Basel the Victorian Albert in London the
new Museum in New York work the Brooklyn
Academy of Music
um and zeka M Carl Drew she's the
recipient of a creative Capital Grant
and a winner of the independent games
Festival Nuovo award and she is
represented by bitforms Gallery in New
York City she's wonderful and I'm really
thrilled to have her with us today uh
onto onto Orient we'll be back with you
in just a few minutes
hello my name is Aria Harvey and um I
want to thank the organizers of the gray
area festival for allowing me to give a
talk to you today
I'm going to share my screen
I'm a sculptor and real-time artist
meaning I make video games and other
types of simulations that run in game
engines
um I'm based in Rome Italy but my
history is in net art and as I said
video games and now I have branched out
into a physical sculpture as well
um
I'm here to talk to you today about
mythology but I've broken it up into a
few different categories ways that I
like to think about it lenses you might
say through which I like to view
mythology and World building
um in my practice
so first we're going to talk about
Paradise
the best advice I can think of is a game
that I made along with my partner
Mikhail samin as tale of tales and this
was the very first video game that we
released and it's called the endless
Forest
the endless Forest is a multiplayer game
where everyone plays a deer and so every
single one of those deer that you see in
this screenshot is a person at a
computer
our idea behind this game was that your
computer goes to sleep and it wakes up
in this forest and you are able to do
only things that a deer can do you
suddenly transform yourself into an
animal who can only do like operate
through the world through and
communicate via body language and
um and you can only run through the
forest and see what there is to see
there
so it looks like a normal sort of
simulated Forest environment and you
greet the other deer and you find a way
to communicate because there's no text
chat in the game and there's no names
there's only these glowing uh symbols
between the antlers which allow you to
identify one another and to me this was
a way that we built a kind of Utopia
where you learn to understand one
another without really having to
understand one another and the people
who play the game actually started
coming up with their own sort of
language a way of moving that
communicates with each other in the game
and that's actually kind of magical
um the way that the world operates
however is it's usually just this very
idyllic
sunny forest but then sometimes the rain
starts or sometimes something else
strange occurs and that is the presence
of what I call what we call the
characters in the game
um call the twin gods and
um what happens is there can be certain
points in the forest where magic a locus
of magic occurs where so here we have
like this Fountain where if you drink
from it you're going to transform again
uh from a deer into another type of
animal a rabbit or a bird or a bat or
something like this and we did this also
to sort of manifest that magic in the
world but the twin gods are present most
present on twid God's Hill where we have
these two statues that are representing
them and the game is really uh about
this kind of beauty that one can feel in
a forest you know so we try to keep it
natural but then um when the Twin gods
are active and they're floating through
the forest everything becomes very crazy
and chaotic and um and these are
actually kind of festive occasions when
a lot of players come and uh witness
this kind of
um party atmosphere in the world
um but I really think that this game
um is a I mean good example of what can
happen when you look to a paradise
example for a game world or to build a
world and think about all the details of
what people are going to do and
experience in that world and I hope you
will download it and play it
thank you
now I want to talk about a project that
or a few projects that Michael and I
worked on in the mid 2000s like 2011
through 2013-ish
um and these projects were built around
the idea of everything in some ways it
was and it was about the universe
ostensibly at least from my point of
view I wanted to make a model of the
universe but we had other concerns also
in there where we were thinking about
humanity and its place in the universe
making a video game about such a subject
would be challenging for anyone but for
us it proved impossible
um and so we had to split this idea up
this what you're seeing now is my
Sketchbook from that time
where I was attempting to look at and
analyze various
um visions of the universe or ways of
measuring
um Universe things like stars star
charts I was also thinking about humans
and how we have tried to chart the
universe through our bodies like through
chakras and other types of systems where
we've tried to internalize
um the Universe
um but what happened was we made a few
prototypes
um this being one of them
um this one uh is called flower lock and
it's from 2012 and I always look at this
um it's easy to idealize a project that
never was really completed
um and I kind of do that with this this
video because this is all that's left of
this interactive prototype that we made
and it was making sort of a game out of
these cosmological diagrams where you
see the Earth in its Center and the
universe the planets are represented by
Celestial spheres like sort of radiating
out from the earth in the center and so
I was trying to find a way to to gamify
that for lack of a better word and um
and we made this beautiful prototype
um that never went anywhere
unfortunately but I think about this a
lot when I think about World building I
think about how
um diagrams of something large like help
us to find um something
that is
um otherwise impossible
to uh it's too big even to imagine
games that came out of that period uh
include luxurious Suburbia which had the
same kind of idea of going within but it
was a game that was meant for touch
screens so it was about touching the
screen and having different things
happen different reactions of this
never-ending uh journey through a tunnel
um it was so sensual that actually the
game was uh about uh these sensations of
you trying to uh give pleasure to the to
the device that you're playing on and
the device reacting to your touch and
trying to give you pleasure in turn
and the other game that came out of that
Universal idea was indeed this uh
cosmological diagram called lock
the game takes you on a journey from
Earth out into
um into space through all the celestial
spheres and
um we did our best to try and make this
uh I'm going to fast forward a little
bit through to make this journey like
feel very much like
um something that you were falling into
or that you were actually traveling
through
um
so it goes through the planets and stars
and then every time you stop and you are
invited to sort of contemplate each each
sphere and it's purely purely
um a visual stimulus stimulating kind of
game but again it was made for touch
screens so we always had this idea of
like the universe being something that
you hold in your palm and when you
played this game on um your phone and
you're tracing this circle because that
is the only action that you use to play
the game tracing this circle would leave
the trace of your finger on the glass so
you would turn your your phone off and
you would be left with this perfect
circle drawn on the glass of your phone
um which to me was the thing that made
it a game was this moment that you had
after you finished playing the game
um where you had to contemplate what you
had just done and thinking about that
symbolism of that Perfect Circle that's
inscribed on your device
my most recent body of work has to do
with transforming myself
uh into various characters
um I'm working with 3D printed sculpture
primarily
I'm enjoying this notion that after
years of putting
um objects and environments and worlds
inside of computers and putting people's
bodies in and imaginations inside of
computers I'm now trying to pull those
out and pull the characters out and also
to pull them into the environment that
so they can coexist with with The
Spectator with you with the audience
that normally was asked to walk into a
world that I've built
um here are two pieces
um one is menorrhea uh who was the first
character that I built actually
um as a sculpture in 2017 she was a
character in a VR World actually in the
beginning
um and the other is called snarl these
both have the same like uh Genesis
really I mean they both come from my
face uh 3D scan that I made in my face
and that I've sculpted in the computer
and using that digital material that
digital clay which I then uh 3D print
and put together with realist real sorry
um real clay
um so uh I use water-based clay epoxy
clay Etc and and then other objects so
as you see in snarl there I've got a
fossil attached
um this notion of working in something
very precise like a 3D program and then
outputting it and using it transforming
it with organic materials in order to
sort of have this dialogue between the
way
I work with precise tools and computers
and they are very
um they work like machines but I am not
a machine so once it's out in to the
world I want to be able to turn it into
something more handmade more human
um on the one side here we have the game
which is a drawing that I made and then
on the other side we have Echo
um which is a sculpture made in resin 3D
printed once again
um these two pieces are both here
because they say something about the
place of transformation
in my work actually the one the game the
drawing is uh one that I started in
2017.
um in the presence of this sculpture uh
that's at the Capitol eye Museum here in
Rome that's called ephedrismos and it's
of two girls playing a game of piggyback
or we don't know what the game of
effigree's most was it's just like a
game that was played in you know uh the
year 300 BC or something
um and
um I started this drawing and then uh
decided to add my own silhouette to it
and I didn't know quite what I meant by
it and I was a little bit
thought it might have sort of a negative
connotation or something and
um so I put the drawing away and then
took it back out and this year to
complete it because I didn't get rid of
it so there must have been something
about it that was hanging in it it
turned out to have a really
important thread in it for me
um where I realized that a lot of what I
had been doing with the 3D printed
sculpture and everything since uh 2017
had to do with this notion of inserting
myself into
um Antiquity or or inserting myself into
myths like making a minotaurus for
example
um and uh then I decided that this was
actually quite a positive thing I mean
I'd like to come from this place of
positivity in my work I think you know
it's not that you can't be critical
because in fact
while I do see it as positive I also
think about the fact that as a black
woman how I am surrounded by Antiquity
and admire antique design antique
sculpture
but
um wondering where my place is among all
these things and I came to the decision
through through this drawing actually
that it all kind of belongs to me or not
I belong to it that
while I have this diasporic
background
my life is
um is just as much about these Stones
about these this cultural icon of
classical sculpture as it is about
anything else and that I wanted to make
myself
known as being a part of these um things
and that that was something that no one
could take away from me in some ways I
hope that makes sense but
I think through Echo the other sculpture
I'm trying to make this more even more
explicit where Echo is of course
referring to the myth of Narcissus and
Echo
um where I'm trying to show this
character this woman who is wasting away
and becoming only a voice
and
um I want this character to have a
certain importance where it's usually in
the myth not given any importance at all
she just followed narcissus around and
then wasted away
it's but I I wanted her to she left
behind us
behind for us this uh effect that uh is
actually quite miraculous hearing your
own voice magnified and then fade away
and and
in this beautiful uh effect of the echo
I don't know I I something always
attracts me to a myth or to a statue and
I try to
um find through sculpture
um what it is that is
um really powerful about it for me and
so again this was
um 3D scans and um then manipulated in
the computer and composed in in 3D
modeling programs
I'd output via a resin printer
um so this is something that I do quite
a lot in this case I'm showing you here
on this screen a physical sculpture and
a digital sculpture
um so my sculptures end up having three
lives always
um I output them via 3D printing
and then that it gives them a physical
tangible existence but then also
there is a digital version which is
viewable by anyone online
and I'm going to show you in the next
slides
um some QR codes that you can scan with
your phone so that you can see the skull
digital sculptures the third way that
they live is on is via AR
um I use AR uh in this case to show this
character of ox
and project them into the world when I
don't know when I need to feel like I
have a power figure near me
but the beautiful thing about working in
this way is that anyone can see my
sculpture anywhere they happen to be so
it's not contained within a digital
environment that you have to download
and you know all of this and it's
something that you can carry with you
once you've captured the QR code you can
open that on your phone and you can save
it to your home screen or whatever and
you have the sculpture to take with you
I really like to do this
um I mean I love the fact that the
sculpture can be experienced with your
body so to speak like because when you
project the AR it kind of feels like
it's there in the room with you and if
you give in to that illusion
you have this feeling like it is really
existing coexisting right next to you
um so and also I can have a kind of
exhibition anywhere that I like and in
this case I'm projecting my character of
the Cyclops in the Luther Museum next to
the Anson Kiefer and and this is uh I
think also important it's like kind of
making it so that I can make the world
you know my sculpture exist in the world
as I see other sculptures exist you know
there's this sort of
um until until recently very much a
Prejudice in some ways or a stigma about
digital work that it's not real you know
I think this is something that is
changing and that we are currently in a
world where we are surrounded by digital
objects every day and I think that this
uh AR is just a beginning
um of how we are going to see digital
artwork manifested in the future
thank you for listening to my talk and
um I hope you enjoy the rest of the
festival and
um
see you
and we're back
um I'm here live with Julia Greenway and
Oria Harvey
um what a fabulous presentation Oreo you
took us through such an incredible
history of your practice across media
across spaces across realities
um what how that was so rich
um thank you
I wanted to start out
um by
talking to you about the capacity for
augmented reality because this is a
medium that you love and that you have
been working with a lot in recent years
um notably you know I was talking
earlier about the Pieces of Me
exhibition we haven't uh we have an AR
work in that show
um you also are putting out uh work that
is um available to you in VR by a
different nft platforms at the moment
um and for me I really think of AR as a
really fascinating medium to discuss in
a worlding protocol context because it
feels like a medium where you can make
anything possible but there's a slight
disconnect between what you can make and
what the impact is in the world in that
you know you can change an environment
to do anything that you want but can you
touch it
um and I think that's a really I don't
know I'm wondering how you in your work
kind of balance that that kind of
tension well I actually think of it as
slightly differently I think like for me
it's like I also do a lot of work with
VR so it's like and also video games as
I mentioned so it's about always putting
people's bodies into uh virtual spaces
and having those bodies experience that
world but the thing about VR for me is
that VR doesn't really take imagination
because you really feel like you're
there like video games that are just
single screen like you know and you're
playing with a mouse or whatever a
joystick like your body and your mind
are projected I think into that space
whereas when you're in a VR it's like
you're really there so therefore you're
you don't need that same level of
imagination that you would have with
like a book say right like a book you
also project yourself into the story
somehow but then I think with ar it's
like taking these virtual things and
bringing them out into the real world
and once again your imagination is
necessary like because is you have to
agree with the illusion like and if you
are the kind of person or if you're
inclined to agree with this illusion
that's being presented to you through
the screen then you actually get the
same Sensation that you get with a real
object you know what I mean it's that's
how it works for me anyway and how I
hope it works for other people it's like
so if I've done my job work right with
the sculpture or with the experience
that I'm making then the person who is
experiencing it really has this bodily
feeling of being with something
um and and to me that's what I'm always
trying to achieve is that thing where
you're like wow it looks so realistic or
it looks really interesting or or what
is this it's changing my perception of
something you know whatever
um and so that's kind of how I view AR
um it's a vehicle for imagination really
yeah we were talking last night a little
bit about how you know just by imagining
something you make it possible and by
allowing yourself to dream you open up a
dream or to simulate you open up
different possibilities that might have
not existed had had no one ever had the
thought
um and I think that that's you know I
think that's that's something that in in
thinking of a worlding protocol where
we're interconnected where
um that takes a holistic View and
incorporates all different kinds of
beings we were you know discussing the
living and the non-living with with
Tabitha earlier earlier this morning
um you know this seems like a an
approach that can help us get there
um in a lot of ways and it feels really
really practical to me
well I mean
I mean no I think that
that really change a lot like in the
coming very near future let's put it
that way and so I'm wondering actually
what is gonna happen like you know and
I'm sort of imagining what I want to
happen also and working towards that so
I don't know I think there's a lot we
don't know about what's about to happen
with it with these Technologies
and other digital Technologies also what
do you want to see happen with ar or
what are you hoping like
um I'm actually like I'm I'm one of
these weirdos actually hoping for that
the AR glasses are cool
um
but
um I also like
um want to think see different types of
projection be possible you know and that
kind of AR like projection mapping these
kinds of Illusions I mean I don't want
it to go all dystopian and stuff but but
at the same time I think there are some
beautiful things that can be done I mean
I'm always thinking as an artist as a
sculptor and so it's like you know to me
this is sort of like a specialized thing
it's not like something that I want to
see like abused or used everywhere it's
like I think but I do think that for a
certain spectacular types of um of
displays and and stuff it could be
really like Holograms like I love
Holograms for example like I want to see
more holographic displays you know I
want to see
um these things become a more
illusionistic and more about 3D since
that's my thing yeah yeah
absolutely and I mean I think that
speaks also to your practice in the
sense that your work is really cross
media intermediate multi however you
want to say it it spans across different
kinds of material realities from the
virtual to the uh to the simulated you
know you know not just virtual but you
know like virtual in many different
forms we have for instance work that is
installed in the web browser work that
is viewable on a phone using a camera
system
um you know work that's installed in an
immersive environment that the the the
person will move through and interact
with and then that comes out into the
physical world I mean your solo show at
bit forms from this year
um which I'll drop a link in the chat
for for the audience was so beautiful
and represented that uh represented how
that work expands outwards and in some
ways your work speaks to this idea that
has always really inspired me by CC Moss
I hope CC's listening I was chatting to
her earlier of expanded internet art
like kind of a term that she coined that
describes this moment and this kind of
work that that is not meant to be
experienced as one thing but is meant to
be looked at as a holistic uh
interpretation of all the instantiate
instantiations of the artwork across all
different kinds of that's a beautiful
idea actually
um I really love that I mean because I'm
definitely trying to work with in that
sense of you experience the work in
multiple ways and that um that each of
those is a beautiful moment each of
those different ways that you can enter
into the work or experience the work or
own the work or be with the work you
know is it's its own experience and its
own yeah I don't know just different
facets of the whole thing which is kind
of like the to get to the for a moment
to the world that radel and I made for
the gray area Festival like this notion
of turning something around in space and
like and losing your orientation our
peace stellarium
um is is actually kind of us doing a
tribute to one another in a funny way
like you know it's like when we work
together on this it's like his
terrariums are these little plants that
are locked in these Crystal Crystal
crystalline structures and um then I
made these little star children I was
thinking a lot about
um myths about the night sky
and and and the way I usually work is
that things start in one place and then
I kind of iterate on an idea so it's
like this is the first time that I have
these star children
um and you know it's like it's it's I
thought of that piece as being called
um like uh ah there it is yeah
um the stars are children of the night
you know and it's like and so we were
making a night environment but then we
changed we we inverted it and and it
turned out to be this really beautiful
like crystalline like kind of structure
where things kind of disappear and
reappear and there's a horizon but the
Horizon is also constantly shifting and
so it's like you know you have the
universe of the stars and then you have
these plants so it's like I I love the
fact that it's sort of speaking more
about
um about nature and and the universe in
a certain sense
um these engines are so simplistic that
it's like you're you're really forced to
use these sort of Basics the Essences of
your ideas and not get too crazy
sometimes I mean you can get crazy quite
easily but for us the way that both of
us think like it was just such a nice
thing to to make something that was just
giving people space to like be in
something and be immersed in something
and be surrounded by something slowly
like changing their perception of of the
world and getting rid of the Horizon and
you know shifting everything
um and I hope that um people enjoy being
inside there
it's quite a peaceful
um it's a it's slightly disorienting yet
very peaceful to be here you know
exactly didn't want it to be crazy it's
just you know it's disorienting but it
doesn't make you ill it just kind of
like changes where you are shifts
slightly the um you know the the I this
the show the exhibition is called
diorama and the idea was that you know
we are using you know we took display 3D
work in a web environment you really
have to strip down the files to their
core their core shapes because there's
just it just won't load properly it's
very difficult with people with
bandwidth in different areas
particularly folks who have low
bandwidth
um to load these these kinds of
environments and so you know the diorama
really emerged as a exhibiting technique
that makes sense because you know we
can't give you the whole world but we
can give you the essence of it we can
give you this diorama this you know
window into it and then kind of leads
you towards towards that World
um and you know what also kind of you
know you know which talk about this
exhibition text but you know it's the
diorama is a colonial patriarchal racist
exhibiting format and has been used to
create damage in so many different ways
so another thing we wanted to do was
take that and repurpose it you know make
the diorama into something that's
expansive not something that's confining
um and I think that this were you know
the your collaboration with Rodell like
you just speaks to that so beautifully
um I'd love to learn a little bit you
know I wonder if this idea of a diorama
resonates with you in any way oh
absolutely absolutely I love this notion
of actually I love natural history
museums like dioramas and stuff like
this absolutely like and I think that
Rodell and I just really vibed off of
not only the diorama idea also because
it fits so well with his
umra but also this sort of like making a
container look like Infinity like you
know it's like because it's what a
diorama is it's like it's it's a small
box but it's like making you think that
you're like in a big open field you know
and so
um you know it was like at first he was
kind of worried that this was like some
sort of like strange illusion like
Truman Show kind of thing and then I was
just like no no this is like a really
relaxing like you know so I was I made
the outer sphere and called it the
salatum you know where all the stars are
and like and um and uh but I was
inspired by those those containers that
he always did and then we were trying to
create this sort of cosmological
um environment you know where it's like
um yeah we're
you try to make this Infinity happen
um
Stars you know stilots starries the
latinum I don't know like sparkling
um we were just thinking about all kinds
of things like this
um and that's where we kind of got the
name was uh for the stellarium
um and we just agreed I think that's
great
it was a fun collaboration is All I'm
gonna say I can't wait to hear Rodeo's
talk no it was just like you know it was
really inspiring to me that you guys
collaborated so closely because you know
as a curator that's that's the dream
right like you want to bring like it's
not even about exhibiting the work it's
about bringing ideas together bringing
people together and making something
generative you know out of that
um and so that was really that was just
you know so special to to get to have
this this really special piece from the
two of you and I know that you know
Riddell was you know he always admired
you and it was just great to make that
connection happen
um which is awesome I mean just so
everybody knows Rodell will be speaking
um this week uh he will be talking this
um this
on the 25th at 6 30 p.m Pacific so tune
on back for that one it's going to be
it's going to be really great
um I have you know I've been asking a
lot of questions and I want to give some
space for for Julia to ask some
questions too but I do have one thing
that I want to talk about just to shift
focus a little bit
um you know you got your start in kind
of the digital art world making games
um and making interactive experiences
for folks and kind of you know moving
through kind of uh the net art
um scene that was happening at the time
um and so I'd love to know more about
how game making has informed your
practice
um because you know you're no stranger
to building worlds as you showed endless
Forest that's a fabulous world where
people can be co-present with each other
um and so yeah I'm just curious about
that that how that has played a role in
your career since then
oh god well I learned everything I know
from making video games as a matter of
fact that's not true not all of it but
before that I was doing like you know
websites and stuff so I learned a lot
about net culture and like all this and
it was a huge part of my life actually
being on the early internet
um in the mid and late 90s
um but then uh I would say that I really
learned like video games was kind of my
career you know it's like that I took
extremely seriously and um and therefore
worked with a ton of people and learned
like so much about making World building
yes but also just the craft of digital
things because so many people in the
games industry are extremely talented
people you know
um and it's just like so I met so many
creative and talented people that I
learned from I must say um but I'm glad
I did even though I was kind of annoyed
by the games industry by the time I
stopped um
I'm glad I did it because I actually
learned something it took a while for me
to realize what I learned but it's like
but the fact that I can I can do that I
can think of my craft you know in in a
in a very
um free way you know it's like it's not
like I feel like I'm constantly like
battling things it's like I can just
kind of do it so it's kind of nice to
just be able to do something you know I
and to get it getting to this part point
was kind of a weird like Road I guess
yeah
so that's the thing about the games
industry I I think that's the biggest
thing for me is that I learned something
but you're still making like games in
your practice would you really not
exactly I'm still using all the tech
though yeah you're just using the tools
and actually because the tools the tech
the ideas in some cases I still teach I
teach game design
um but at the same time I wouldn't say
it my practice is so different now from
when I made uh video games like
completely
um the time skills are like a lot
shorter now like making a game is like a
long-term plan
um you know
um and so now it's just like I make I
have projects and like you know I can
think sort of in as a group or series of
things as opposed to one big thing one
get big
that's going to come out
two years from now or something right
yeah um
on you know what I have I'm on a final
note I know we're running out of time
and it's it's late in Rome where you are
Oria
um my husband's gonna kill me if we
don't eat dinner soon
well I just have one more question for
you and you know your work particularly
your recent work these you know expanded
internet art objects sculptures that
expand across material realities they
are very rooted in many ways in
storytelling and in so many ways I mean
I don't want to like you know label you
or make put you in a box or anything but
in so many ways or yeah I see you as a
Storyteller
um and you know in in in particular
works for instance in uh your piece Digi
in hand which is a beautiful augmented
reality and web installed uh work as
well as a physical sculpture
um you know you're retelling the
mythology of the stygian witches in that
piece
um I do this a lot of like different
characters it's I think a bit more like
I'm I'm I'm making things around a
character that appeals to me in some way
and I'm trying to like you know find the
sculptural form that goes along with
that story that you know and telling the
story through the form in some way but
at the same time it is and is not much
like the games I made it is and is not
related to the to the story at all you
know but at the same time that's the
root of it that's that's the the
inspiration the thing that that made me
that triggered something in my brain to
make the uh the artwork you know
um total really
you want to ask a question no you're
just you're just what's that I was
wondering if you wanted to ask a
question you were like
[Laughter]
before we sign off or yeah I'd also just
want to ask you do you have any advice
for World Builders out there for how
they can approach these ideas and you
know in their own practices
um I'd say the biggest thing that I
always tell my students is to pay
attention to what is um what is
attracting you in the world in the real
world so like if you're sitting this
happened the other day if you're sitting
there and there's a big storm outside
and you're looking out the window and
suddenly you find yourself like afraid
like you know like oh this is a big
storm should I get away from the glass
you know whatever like you know sort of
notice that moment you know that's an
exciting moment but it could be a quiet
moment like really pay attention to what
is what it is about a something that
makes you feel something like you know
and and then try to think of like rather
than replicating reality you know try to
get back that that feeling that you had
whatever you know use your skills to get
that feeling back as opposed to trying
to use you know make photorealistic
trees or something try to get back that
feeling of the wind you know or
something like that which is abstract
when you say it like how am I going to
give people the feeling of the wind when
they're just looking at the screen but
that's your that's your task that's the
that's what World building is is you
want them to feel like they're there it
doesn't have to look realistic it just
has to feel realistic so to speak
so that's my biggest world big building
tip that and particle effects
you know what Maria I know we've taken
up a lot of your time and you got to get
some dinner thank you so much for being
here
yeah
thanks for the rest of the festival
everyone and have a nice night Wade and
Julia thanks bye thank you bye